DEVDOCS-3398: Create BODL.md (#1376)
bigcommerce/dev-docs: docs/api-docs/analytics/BODL.md

# Big Open Data Layer (BODL)

<div class="otp" id="no-index">

### On this page
- [Overview](#overview)
- [Pixel example snippets](#pixel-example-snippets)
</div> 

## Overview

> The Big Open Data Layer (shortened as BODL, pronounced 'Bottle') is a standard for obtaining data points necessary to drive storefront analytics and personalization. By moving all BigCommerce and headless storefronts to use this standard over time, merchants will benefit from increased site speed and more consistent third-party analytics integrations.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The Big Open Data Layer (shortened as BODL, pronounced 'Bottle') is a standard used to obtain data points needed for driving storefront analytics and personalization. Having all BigCommerce and headless storefronts use this standard over time allows merchants to benefit from increased site speed and more consistent third-party analytics integrations.
```

## Pixel example snippets

> Below is a series of example snippets of code to build on when using BODL data for your integration.

Author: @markcmurphy, Nate said the following:
it's a generic term / tech for how you track users. here's a good overview: https://www.cookiepro.com/knowledge/tracking-pixel/

it could be seen as 'example analytics snippets' instead?
or 'example tracking snippets'?

> Below is a series of example snippets of code to build on when using BODL data for your integration.

Reviewer 2: I recommend "scripts" or something along those lines instead of "pixel"

### Initialize script

> This larger code snippet has a lot of detection built-in to identify where it is running within the environment; then, the code injects objects based on this detection.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This larger code snippet has a lot of built-in detection to identify where it is running within the environment; then, the code injects objects based on this detection.
```

<div class="HubBlock--callout">
<div class="CalloutBlock--">
<div class="HubBlock-content">
  
 <!-- theme:  -->

> The check for BODL is fetched once per page render instead of once for each analytics integration. If you want to make an alternate custom version of this data layer object with a unique schema, please use a unique object name. A unique object name ensures other apps depending on this default BODL schema do not break. We recommend using BODL_YOUR_APP_NAME, so it's unique and easy to determine its purpose.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The check for BODL is fetched once per page render instead of once for each analytics integration. If you want to make an alternate custom version of this data layer object with a unique schema, please use a unique object name. A unique object name ensures other apps depending on this default BODL schema do not break. We recommend using BODL_YOUR_APP_NAME as the object name so that it's unique and easy to understand.
```

  sampleAnalyticsProvider.load('<%= property_id %>');
  sampleAnalyticsProvider.page();

  // Advanced Matching
  if (BODL.customer && BODL.customer.id) {
    var customerObj = {
      email: BODL.customer.email,
    }

    if (BODL.customer.phone) {
      var phoneNumber = BODL.customer.phone;
      if (BODL.customer.phone.indexOf('+') === -1) {
        // No country code, so default to US code
        phoneNumber = `+1${phoneNumber}`;  
      }

      customerObj.phone = phoneNumber;
    }

    sampleAnalyticsProvider.identify(BODL.customer.id, customerObj);
  }
}(window, document, 'sampleAnalyticsProvider');
</script>
```

### Add to cart

> The following snippet covers tracking the Add to Cart event, actively tracking each new product ID, and quantity added.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The following snippet covers tracking the Add to Cart event, actively tracking each new product ID and quantity added.
```

      productQty = pair[1];
    }
  }

  // References:
  // https://developer.bigcommerce.com/theme-objects/product
  // https://developer.bigcommerce.com/stencil-docs/developing-further/catalog-price-object
  sampleAnalyticsProvider.instance('<%= property_id %>').track('AddToCart', {
    content_id: BODL.product.id,
    content_category: BODL.breadcrumbs[1] ? BODL.breadcrumbs[1].name : '',
    content_type: 'product_group',
    content_name: BODL.product.title,
    quantity: productQty,
    price: BODL.product.price.without_tax.value,
    value: (BODL.product.price.without_tax.value * productQty),
    currency: BODL.product.price.without_tax.currency,
  });
}}));

if (BODL.cartItemAdded) {
  sampleAnalyticsProvider.instance('<%= property_id %>').track('AddToCart', {
    content_id: BODL.cartItemAdded.product_id,
    content_type: 'product_group',
    content_name: BODL.cartItemAdded.name,
    quantity: BODL.cartItemAdded.quantity,
    price: BODL.cartItemAdded.price.value,
    value: BODL.cartItemAdded.total.value,
    currency: BODL.cartItemAdded.price.currency,
  });
</script>
<!-- Sample Pixel Code End: Product Detail Page Add to Cart Event -->
  ```

### Add to wishlist

> The following snippet is for tracking when users add an item to their wishlist. Note that this sends individual products specified by the 'added_product_id' and a commented section regarding category data. We do not track category data on the wishlist, but we included it for future-proofing.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The following snippet is used to track when users add an item to their wishlist. Note that this sends individual products specified by the 'added_product_id' and a commented section regarding category data. We do not track category data on the wishlist, but the snippet includes it for future-proofing.
```

Author: I made all the changes except in the first sentence. I did not want to change the text to "is used" because it is passive voice.

```javascript
<!-- Sample Pixel Code Start: Add to Wishlist -->
<script>
// This only sends one wishlist product: the one that was just added based on the 'added_product_id' param in the url
if (BODL.wishlist) {
  var addedWishlistItem = BODL.wishlist.items.filter((i) => i.product_id === parseInt(BODL.getQueryParamValue('added_product_id'))).map((p) => ({
    content_id: p.product_id,
    // Commenting out as category data doesn't exist on wishlist items
    // content_category: p.does_not_exist, 
    content_name: p.name,
    content_type: "product_group",
    currency: p.price.without_tax.currency,
    price: p.price.without_tax.value,
    value: p.price.without_tax.value,
  }));
  
  sampleAnalyticsProvider.instance('<%= property_id %>').track('AddToWishlist', addedWishlistItem[0]);
}
</script>
<!-- Sample Pixel Code End: Add to Wishlist -->
```
### Order complete

> This snippet pulls down a series of objects from a completed order, splitting them into nested arrays for physical items, digital items, and gift certificates.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This snippet pulls down a series of objects from a completed order and splits them into nested arrays for physical items, digital items, and gift certificates.
```

    var thisItem = orderJson.lineItems.digitalItems[i];
    orderQty += thisItem.quantity;
    lineItems.push({
      "content_id": thisItem.productId,
      "content_name": thisItem.name,
      "currency": orderJson.currency.code,
      "price": thisItem.salePrice,
      "value": thisItem.extendedSalePrice,
      "quantity": thisItem.quantity,
      "content_type": "product_group"
    });
	}

	for (i = 0; i < orderJson.lineItems.giftCertificates.length; i++) {
    var thisItem = orderJson.lineItems.giftCertificates[i];
    orderQty += thisItem.quantity;
    lineItems.push({
      "content_id": thisItem.type,
      "content_name": thisItem.name,
      "currency": orderJson.currency.code,
      "price": thisItem.amount,
      "value": thisItem.amount,
      "quantity": thisItem.quantity,
      "content_type": "product_group"
    });
	}

  sampleAnalyticsProvider.instance('<%= property_id %>').track('Purchase', {
      "contents": lineItems,
      "value": orderJson.orderAmount,
      "quantity": orderQty,
      "currency": orderJson.currency.code
  });
});
</script>
<!-- Sample Pixel Code End: Purchase Event -->
```

### Registration

> This simple snippet tracks account creation.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This snippet tracks account creation.
```

```javascript
<!-- Sample Pixel Code Start: Registration -->
<script>
if (window.location.pathname.indexOf('/login.php') === 0 && BODL.getQueryParamValue('action') === 'account_created') {
  sampleAnalyticsProvider.instance('<%= property_id %>').track('Registration');
}
</script>
<!-- Sample Pixel Code End: Registration -->
```

### Search

> This snippet tracks when an end-user searches for products. Please take note that there is a built-in tracker for the category. However, we have commented out the tracker due to known distortions, which cause reporting of only the first category ID. Only reactivate if needed; use it at your own risk.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This snippet tracks when an end-user searches for products. Please take note that there is a built-in tracker for the category. However, the tracker is commented out due to known distortions, so only the first category ID is reported. Only reactivate if needed; use it at your own risk.
```

Reviewer: Changed to 3rd person to avoid personal ("we") pronoun

Author: I made all the changes except for "the tracker is commented out" because this text is passive voice.

    var thisItem = orderJson.lineItems.digitalItems[i];
    orderQty += thisItem.quantity;
    lineItems.push({
      "content_id": thisItem.productId,
      "content_name": thisItem.name,
      "currency": orderJson.currency.code,
      "price": thisItem.salePrice,
      "value": thisItem.extendedSalePrice,
      "quantity": thisItem.quantity,
      "content_type": "product_group"
    });
	}

	for (i = 0; i < orderJson.lineItems.giftCertificates.length; i++) {
    var thisItem = orderJson.lineItems.giftCertificates[i];
    orderQty += thisItem.quantity;
    lineItems.push({
      "content_id": thisItem.type,
      "content_name": thisItem.name,
      "currency": orderJson.currency.code,
      "price": thisItem.amount,
      "value": thisItem.amount,
      "quantity": thisItem.quantity,
      "content_type": "product_group"
    });
	}

  sampleAnalyticsProvider.instance('<%= property_id %>').track('StartCheckout', {
      "contents": lineItems,
      "value": orderJson.orderAmount,
      "quantity": orderQty,
      "currency": orderJson.currency.code
  });
});
</script>
<!-- Sample Pixel Code End: Start Checkout Event -->
```

### Subscribe to newsletter

> A super simple snippet that tracks anytime the user successfully subscribes to a newsletter.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
A snippet that tracks anytime the user successfully subscribes to a newsletter.
```

```javascript
<!-- Sample Pixel Code Start: Subscribe to Newsletter -->
<script>
if (window.location.pathname.indexOf('/subscribe.php') === 0 && BODL.getQueryParamValue('result') === 'success') {
  sampleAnalyticsProvider.instance('<%= property_id %>').track('Subscribe');
}
</script>
<!-- Sample Pixel Code End: Subscribe to Newsletter -->
```

### View category

> A small snippet that tracks when the user views a category.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
A snippet that tracks when the user views a category.
```

```javascript
<!-- Sample Pixel Code Start: View Category Content -->
<script>
if (BODL.category) {
  sampleAnalyticsProvider.instance('<%= property_id %>').track('ViewContent', {
    contents: BODL.category.products.map((p) => ({
      content_id: p.id,
      content_category: BODL.category.name,
      content_name: p.name,
      content_type: "product_group",
      currency: p.price.without_tax.currency,
      price: p.price.without_tax.value,
      value: p.price.without_tax.value,
    }))
  });
}
</script>
<!-- Sample Pixel Code End: View Category Content -->
```

### View product

> A simple snippet that tracks the viewing of a product.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
A snippet that tracks the viewing of a product.
```
